(Sobs)
Still can't get used to Mister Francis bein' gone.
Breaks my heart to think of him,
all fired up about those rock samples.
When in the end, 'twas only quartz,
with schorl an' iron oxide mixed.
- Fool's copper.
Leaving his widow with nothing
but debt and shares in a failing mine.
I'm to Trenwith, to see Elizabeth.
Is Verity's company not enough for her?
Hup!
He comes to take Geoffrey Charles to the mine.
And you?
I'm trustee of my son's shares in Wheal Grace,
which is why Ross brings me weekly reports.
Sometimes twice-weekly.
Uncle Ross is here, Mama!
Who else can I depend on?
(Hums cheerfully)
Is it done?
"Mr Poldark, I give you notice
that your promissory note
for £1 ,000 plus interest at 40%,
will fall due and must be paid in full."
The day after Christmas?
Do they serve plum pudding in debtors' prison?
(Chuckles grimly)
Will you take my coat?
- I do not feel the cold.
- I think you do.
At any rate, you used to.
At any rate, it's warmer than Trenwith.
I must learn to grow a thicker skin.
Can you?
Sometimes.
I miss Francis.
I miss him too.
I never thought him the most practical of men,
yet now I realise how much he dealt with.
Matters offinance, the estate, the servants...
decisions which now fall to me.
Do not hesitate to call upon me, Elizabeth.
Oh, I do. More often than I should.
You have your own home, and wife and child.
You seek to share my troubles,
yet never tell me your own.
What of your debts?
The promissory note
which fell into George's hands?
Don't trouble yourself.
The sum was much exaggerated.
And the mine?
How long can we continue with such poor yield?
For your sake and his, I will squeeze
out every last drop before it defeats us.
Uncle Ross looks after us so well.
Where would we be without him?
Oi, maid, even your oils and vittles?
Not a word to Ross.
I don't want him thinkin' I fear the worst.
'Ee do fear the worst!
If he go to prison,
we'll need more'n a few tetties
to see us through.
Hush your creenin'!
Ifthis be his last Christmas here for a while,
I mean to make it a goodly one.
- Dr Enys.
- Is it anyone we know?
Nay, sir.
Say he may be from the Parthesia.
It was wrecked last night off St Ann's.
A cryin' waste o' life, don't 'ee think, Dr Enys?
I do indeed, Rosina.
Take Rosina home. I'll see him buried.
Nay, Rosina, 'tis needful 'ee take my arm,
for fear thy lipsy leg do buckle beneath 'ee.
Oh, yes...Pascoe's asked to see me.
He's received word from the Warleggans
regarding my promissory note.
Could we not appeal to our wealthier friends,
at least to save you from debtors' prison?
Speak to people!
That's not how I work.
So it's against your principles?
Nay, Ross, 'tis against your pride!
This stew is excellent.
Of course.
It's obvious.
- Argh!
- What do 'ee do to her?
Rosina? Can you stand?
Don't be afraid.
I'll be here to catch you.
Nay, surgeon. If anyone shall, 'tis I.
Ah...I think...
I believe...
What did 'ee do?
- 'Tis all mended. There be no pain.
- There was a displacement.
You had it so long, the muscles
withered and caused inflammation.
I'll put a bandage on it for now,
but soon you'll be able to manage without.
'Tis a miracle!
No. Basic anatomy.
There seem to be soldiers everywhere.
Events across in France
make the gentry nervous.
Events along the coast
make the gaugers watchful.
- Has it arrived?
- As expected.
The full amount, with interest.
- I did enquire whether the Warleggans...
- I can guess the response.
Quite so.
It's to be paid six weeks hence.
The day afer Christmas.
How are you, Tonkin?
Good of you to call, Cap'n. Few others do.
You've no notion how much your visits
have helped me through.
Not to mention this.
Bless you, sir.
- When do you expect to be released?
- Soon afer Christmas.
Then it will be your turn to visit me.
George Warleggan has a bill of mine
which I cannot pay.
Surely you have assets?
Your shares in Wheal Leisure?
Does the mine not prosper?
My shares are worth about £600,
not even half ofwhat I owe.
Besides, I would not give them the satisfaction.
Then you will suffer.
Then I will suffer.
- Ah! Miss Penvenen.
- Captain Poldark.
Seven months away
have given me an appetite for such sights.
And doubtless they for you.
I was most grieved
to hear of your cousin's death.
Thank you.
We miss him greatly.
He was your partner in the mine, I believe?
Were you able to continue the venture?
It goes on.
- Profitably?
- Not profitably.
- And how is Dr Enys?
- A worker of miracles!
I just came through Sawle and I heard tell
of his curing a village girl of her lameness.
Rosina Hoblyn?
- You know her?
- Of her. How was it done?
No doubt Dr Enys will enlighten you
soon enough.
(Spurs horse on)
Did you know Caroline had returned?
(Clears throat)
As a matter offact, yes.
The attachment's bad, I know,
and it's my weakness but I cannot shake it.
No doubt it will end badly
and I'll have myjust deserts.
Possibly.
It seems fate does as it pleases.
And it has nothing to do
with strength or weakness shown.
Take Francis.
Was there ever a sorrier or less deserved end?
To walk out ofthis house and in an hour,
to drown like a dog in a well?
And for nothing.
That's... That's what I most deplore,
the wanton, useless waste of it.
The quirks offate...
..which make nonsense of all our striving.
95 years of age. What do you think ofthat?
I think it's high time the coffin-maker
started taking measurements.
Head ofthe family.
Mistress ofthis house.
And so I intend to remain.
Good luck with that, old hag.
(Footsteps approaching)
Elizabeth!
You look pale. Are you unwell?
I've brought a small token for my godson.
- I know you'll accept nothing for yourself.
- Well, I...
Are you looking forward to Christmas?
I wish I were. Entertaining on a grand scale
is not my preference.
But my uncle's very thick with Tony Boscoigne,
and no doubt there's some scheme afoot
to throw me under the hooves of his sisters.
- Or so your mother believes.
- You've seen her?
Oh.
I'd not intended to mention.
I have on occasion over the last few months
prevailed upon her to dine with me.
You know how much I admire her.
She speaks very highly of you.
- She has shared with me certain concerns.
- Oh?
In the wake of Francis...forgive me...
certain outstanding debts of his...
accumulating interest...
- which must be dealt with.
- Of course.
But not until you're out of mourning,
and well beyond.
You're very kind, George.
As your friend, it's the very least I can do.
(Clattering and pounding)
HENSHAWE:
Something amiss with that engine.
I've sent for Trevithick.
Is it worth the while,
given how little she's yielding?
I wonder that.
It's a cryin' shame we never found
that lode Mark Daniel spoke of.
Perhaps he was mistook.
He was an experienced miner.
He knew what he was looking at.
Then it's a pity
he can't be found and asked the question.
Where?
(Grunting and squealing)
Ross continues to vex society.
- What's he done now?
- What has he not done?
Graced the Poldark family pew at church,
taken his seat as magistrate on the bench.
As head ofthe Poldark family,
these things are expected of him.
Oh, you know Ross and expectation!
Besides, I've suspicion he'd think he was more
than fulfillin' his duties in other ways.
Towards Elizabeth, for instance?
Does that trouble you?
Ross never tells me what goes on
in his meetings with her, and I never ask him.
But if you're concerned?
Seems to me that havin' a husband's
a little bit like goin' to church.
You either believe in something or you don't.
And if you don't, then why go at all?
But if you do, then you've no cause
to keep asking for proof.
And do you...believe?
Most ofthe time.
Why don't you smile, Mama?
Well, smiling makes lines upon the face,
my love.
See?
And lines make us look older.
So I must smile less.
Not in public, but here, at home.
But when you see me not smiling,
you mustn't think I'm sad or displeased with you,
only that I'm trying to spare my face.
It's important for a lady to look her best.
- Why?
- You'll understand when you're older.
Seven months has seemed a lifetime.
Did my letters not satisfy you?
They evoked pleasure and pain
in equal measure.
Forgive me, I'm a little at sea.
All I know for certain is I'm my own mistress,
yet no freer to follow my heart.
But I'm here, and you're here...
perhaps that's all that matters.
I met your Captain Poldark again.
He told me.
Would you be jealous
if I said I admired him greatly?
I admire him myself.
He's an exceptional man and a dear friend.
I only wish his circumstances were happier.
Is his cousin's pretty widow the "circumstance",
or is it some other matter?
A financial matter.
And his wife?
She seems to be universally adored.
Is she the sort ofwoman that all men desire
except her husband?
It so ofen happens.
No great incentive for marriage.
Don't you think I'd be ill-advised to try it?
Not if you choose the right man.
Shall I choose a miracle worker,
who now has an adoring Rosina and
a crowd of sickly miners battering his door?
There can't be many physicians of your calibre
who give all their energies to help the poor.
How do you live?
On an income of£40 a year from the two mines,
plus whatever my patients can spare me.
I agree it's very little.
Could you not set up in Oxford or Bath,
work among people of your own kind?
Charity is a noble impulse,
but should it not begin at home?
Even in Bath or Oxford, the poor will always
be in greater need of attention than the rich.
Besides, I've no wish to become a society pet.
Is that what you think I am?
No, Caroline.
I would never suggest that,
or wish you to think that I'm...
The most noble of men,
and I the most vacuous ofwomen?
Would you have me pretend
to be other than I am?
I would have you believe
that you're better than you think.
Race me!
Mark Daniel?
'Twould be too risky, I believe,
for him to return to England.
Have you asked my men for news of him?
I thought I'd come to you first.
Besides, I'm not sure who to trust.
The informer who answers to Vercoe
might also report to McNeil.
McNeil claims convalescence,
not the trade, has brought him here.
- Do you believe him?
- Not a jot.
Our trusted band grows smaller.
I removed Vigus.
Now I think to replace Jacka Hoblyn.
Why do you suspect him?
I suspect everyone. 'Tis the safest way.
I think you're mistook.
Jacka's a surly fellow,
but I doubt he'd betray his friends.
- Any man'll betray his friends ifthe price is right.
- As Ted knows to his cost.
Ted! How are you?
Have you recovered from your sentence?
Three months' hard labour
do feel like three years.
And still I'm no closer
to knowin' who betrayed me.
But to Mark Daniel.
I could put the word out,
get a letter to him.
I'd be very grateful.
And in exchange?
Yes?
One drawback to your cove.
You've always insisted, haven't you,
that all must be done in a single night?
Don't blame you. But 'tis deuced awkward.
Ifwe could store some ofthe goods
two or three days...
Ten men do in three nights what 30 do in one.
Less chance for the informer.
Bring the cargo ashore and hide it,
if you catch my drift.
We'd be willing to make
a small extra payment for the inconvenience.
A goodwill gesture, so to speak.
How much of a gesture?
A secret cache? On our land?
To store goods during a run
so they can be carried away at leisure.
Or found by the gaugers,
and you carried away in chains!
I'll be in chains regardless soon enough.
Dislike it, Ross.
If I go to prison for debt,
this will mean more money coming in.
The quicker the debt is paid,
the quicker I'm out again.
Unless goods be found in our house,
in which case you'll serve longer!
The cache will be built in the library
and can be done in one night.
Four or five men to dig it,
six or eight to use it thereafter.
And the informer?
Trencrom will hand-pick his men.
And in return?
25 guineas per cargo,
and a promise to find Mark Daniel.
- How will that help?
- He's our last chance offinding copper,
of making the mine pay.
If Grace fails, how will I repay the Warleggans?
Why can you not appeal to your friends?
Ray Penvenen,
Horace Treneglos, even Trencrom?
Would they not put up the money
to save you from bankruptcy?
- The sum is too great.
- You mean your pride is!
No one of sense, however much a friend,
would loan money to a man with a failing mine,
for the simple reason
that they would never get it back.
But if I could demonstrate that the mine might
prosper, I could borrow against its better days.
Until we find Mark Daniel.
- Do I have your consent?
- You dare to ask me that?
Knowin' very well you do exactly
what you please, with or without my say?
Were you ever involved
in Ross Poldark's copper smelting venture?
I made a minor investment.
It was an ill-conceived enterprise.
Everyone lost money.
Except the Warleggans.
Why do you ask?
I believe Ross Poldark has some debt
from that time.
The Warleggans acquired it
and are pressing for bankruptcy.
You're very well informed.
Less than I'd like to be.
No doubt Dr Enys could enlighten you further.
I shall go to Truro tomorrow.
It's a poor place to shop
but I need new buckles for my shoes.
- You are your own mistress now, Caroline.
- So I am.
Though...I think you should not allow
a natural pleasure in your new freedom
to override the requirements of good conduct.
To ride far and unattended in the company
of a young man of eligible years
is to invite comment of an unsavoury nature.
No doubt it was innocently done,
but it is neither fair to me,
who may seem to countenance it,
or to the young man himself, who may derive
from it ambitions beyond his proper sphere.
Thank you for your concern, Uncle.
If my conduct so bothers you,
would it not be better
for me to quit this house and live elsewhere?
That would be an excellent solution, were it not
for the great affection we hold for each other.
Uncle Ray is becoming cross with me, Horace.
There will shortly be angry words
which we shall both regret.
Don't you think
we had better change the subject?
At what hour tomorrow
shall you require the carriage?
At nine.
Thank you, Uncle.
"Dear Dr Enys, I should be obliged
if you would attend on me tomorrow morning
between ten-thirty and eleven...
and oblige Ray Penvenen."
My dears, you do recall
that I'm to return home today?
Fiddlesticks! 'Tis nearly Christmas.
A woman should be with her family at such time.
My husband would agree with you.
Ah! Men. They have business to attend to.
I doubt he's even noticed you're gone.
His letters suggest otherwise.
In any case, I've missed him a great deal,
and have every intention
of making up for lost time.
(Agatha coughs and splutters)
And you?
I have an invitation to Nampara.
- Shall you accept?
- Geoffrey Charles is eager.
Are you?
I think it may do me good
to have some varied company.
- These guests?
- Are specifically chosen for their use to us,
in business, in society, in terms ofthe future.
Arabella Trevelyan, the Honourable
Maria Penrose, Eliza Courtney-Prowse?
- These girls must be all of 17!
- And prime breeding stock.
You may examine their teeth if you choose.
I think I'll ride to Trenwith.
When will you call in the loans on that estate?
What's to be gained
by staying in the good books
of a poverty-stricken widow in her late 20s?
I could alleviate her poverty if I chose,
but I choose to let her feel it.
She has made her bed
and now she must lie in it.
(Demelza grunts)
Agh.
Oh, Judas!
- Do 'ee read my fortune?
- Aye, maid.
It do tell me, with hands like these,
Demelza Poldark be no lady!
This kindling is damp.
- Has it been seasoned?
- I've no idea.
Of course not.
I'm glad to see you allow yourself some luxuries.
Oh...no. It is a present for Geoffrey Charles,
from George.
Oh, has he been here?
I had to admit him, Ross.
He's my chief creditor.
- And his views on your debts?
- Very generous. They always have been.
He offered to waive the interest indefinitely.
Of course I could not accept.
My quarrel with George is not your quarrel.
If he wants to win your approval, let him.
You don't have to like him.
- (Elizabeth exhales)
- You're shivering.
I wish I could help you.
For my own sake, I can bear it.
But for my son, for his future...
When Francis came into his estate,
there was money to live on,
comfort, dignity.
It breaks my heart to think that
Geoffrey Charles will have so little to his name.
It breaks my heart too.
There's nothing to be done, is there?
My remaining shares in Wheal Leisure.
What would you say is their worth?
Upwards of£600.
Sell them.
You wish to devote the money to Wheal Grace?
No.
To a special purpose.
Francis's widow and family are in dire need.
More so than yours?
Two years ago, Francis sank his last £600
into Wheal Grace.
I want Elizabeth Poldark to have it back.
- Will she accept?
- Of course not,
which is why I need your help.
When my shares in Wheal Leisure are sold,
you'll make an offer
for Geoffrey Charles's holding in Wheal Grace,
on behalf of an anonymous client
whom you represent.
Elizabeth will accept,
and the money can be transferred to her.
So do I understand you aright?
You are offering £600 for a half share
in a mine which is about to close,
when you owe George Warleggan, the man
who will happily see you in debtors' prison,
- £1 ,400?
- Correct.
As your banker and friend,
I must advise against.
You cannot afford it. And you have
your own wife and child to care for.
Would it not seem as ifyou value
your cousin-in-law's comfort ahead of hers?
It might, if I chose to tell her, which I do not.
I am here. Francis is not.
Demelza has resources
which Elizabeth does not.
She's a miner's daughter.
She has learnt to survive.
Elizabeth is a gentlewoman.
And you are a madman.
A madman who can now order his life
with a clear conscience.
My niece is in Truro.
I have taken the opportunity to summon you.
I imagine you've some idea why?
I don't think it's for me to speculate, sir.
I might wish you'd shown such delicacy
in all your dealings.
I'm sorry you think I have not.
I refer to your friendship with my niece.
In what way do you consider that offensive?
Oh, come, sir. You cannot be ignorant
ofthe ways ofthe world.
As for a serious attachment...
..with a young man of your station...
- I am a gentleman, sir.
- And she is an heiress!
Much too important a person to be entangled
with a penniless country doctor like yourself.
Is that not for her to decide?
Caroline must marry with my consent,
otherwise she will not inherit a penny.
She has been brought up
in the greatest possible luxury.
Do you suppose that she'll sacrifice that
for the little you have to offer?
She has given me cause to suppose so.
Or you may think
she has a private fortune of her own.
- I neither know nor care what she has.
- £6,000. £6,000.
All you'd get if you married her.
Until now,
I've suffered your comments with a due
degree of civility, but there are limits, sir.
God knows I've never given you cause
to suppose me a fortune hunter,
and if you imagine that no man without an eye to
her inheritance could fall in love with your niece,
then you greatly underrate her charms
and insult us both.
Well, I hope I have made my views clear.
And in doing so you have given me hope.
Caroline's fortune is less than I thought.
I'm glad of it.
A penniless doctor could wed such a fortune
yet not be eclipsed by it.
You will leave this house now, sir,
and you'll never return.
You will cease all communication with my niece.
Caroline is of age, sir.
Your control may be exercised
within these walls, but not beyond.
I see I have gravely mistaken your character,
Dr Enys.
But at least now we understand each other.
Oh, yes, sir.
Now we understand each other.
London is so diverting. I may well
take a house for the season next year.
May I hope to be honoured
by a visit from yourself?
I'd be delighted, sir, and I'd like to think
Elizabeth could be persuaded.
Once she's out of mourning?
But I dare not hope for it. She's been closeted
away at Trenwith for so long.
Yet society deserves to see more
of its rarest treasures, yourself included.
Oh!
(Laughs)
Goodbye, little man.
Look after your mama this Christmas.
It's what your papa would wish.
You may think me interfering,
but I urge you
to let Ross and Demelza
keep this Christmas to themselves.
- But...
- For your sake as well as theirs.
Nothing will happen till nightfall.
- Well, that do make all the difference!
- Demelza...
What can I do?
I can't beg for money. I can't earn it.
I can't dig for it. I can't tell him not to dig.
What use am I?
He should've wed someone
like Caroline Penvenen.
I've know'd Cap'n Ross since he were a whelp.
Since his mother died.
She was a good soul, an' a wise,
an' I know what she'd say.
- What?
- That her lad had met his match.
Mebbe that was true once, but now...
- ..now I'm his torment.
- And she'd say, serve him right.
I could crown him.
An' he scarcely knows I'm there.
(Knocking)
Prudie! Don't answer it!
Oh! Charlie! I did fear it might be the gaugers.
Why would they suspect
a gentleman's house, ma'am?
I come with a message for Cap'n Ross.
Wait here. I'll fetch him.
Ross? There's a visitor.
Charlie!
What is it?
Mr Trencrom say if 'ee wish to write a letter
to Mark Daniel in France, do so.
I'll see it gets aboard when The One & All sails.
Ross! I'm so glad you're here.
I want to know what I must do.
From Pascoe?
An offer has been made
for Geoffrey Charles's share ofWheal Grace.
It's not the Warleggans.
I've already ascertained that.
Is it not astonishing?
It's a good price.
But that someone should offer as much
for his share as Francis first put into it?
Has there been some new discovery of ore?
Far from it.
Everyone knows we must close soon.
"The prospective buyer is a gentleman
who wishes to remain nameless
but who has your son's best interest at heart."
Remarkable.
What do you advise?
Should I consider the offer?
Consider? You should accept it without delay.
Our situation here... The money
would make all the difference. But for you?
Are you sure it won't compromise you?
Your new partner, a stranger?
I know you think it best for us, but I'd hate to
think I was taking advantage of our friendship.
Elizabeth, you must sell.
This will enormously ease your situation.
I'm only grateful for your hesitation,
and your loyalty all these months.
Loyalty's not all on one side, Ross,
nor ever has been.
I regret I must decline your invitation
for Christmas.
I believe Francis would want me
to spend it in his house.
And I regret that circumstances are such
that I cannot take care of you as I might wish.
We both regret that, Ross.
You've had time to consider your position?
I have.
See, Caroline, you... you must understand
that though I might tolerate the young man
on a professional basis,
I cannot permit him to have sight of you again
afer his impudent pretensions to your hand.
I misunderstood his attentions, Uncle.
Now that I apprehend them,
I will know how to behave in future.
Caroline.
(Horse whinnies)
You're an accomplished rider, Dr Enys.
Clearly such talents would be wasted in city life.
I have other talents which would not.
But you can't bear the thought of Bath.
And you can't bear the thought of marriage.
To a man oftalent, anything is possible.
Without you, nothing is possible.
Hup, hup!
War now seems inevitable.
Merry Christmas, Ross.
Pitt's called out the military.
The French are in Antwerp.
Gravy?
What?
Oh...yes...thank you.
I invited Dwight to join us.
Oh?
- He declined.
- Probablyjust as well.
Would have meant two mouthfuls apiece
as opposed to three.
- I expect he's meeting Caroline.
- I expect he is.
From Mr Trencrom.
(Baby gurgles)
Mark Daniel.
Yes?
Apparently he's disappeared
from the face ofthe earth.
Oh.
Leastways now we know.
Yes. Now we know our last hope is gone.
I wish it could be more, my darling.
Perhaps next Christmas.
Rose-water? Do I require a fumigant?
- No, Aunt, but...
- Francis always knew what I liked.
Brandywine, port and Canary.
Preferably all three.
Oh, how charming!
- Did you make it yourself?
- Yes, Mama.
Just the thing for guarding the fire
and avoiding society!
Then we'll all need one.
Get your needles out, Elizabeth.
Mr George Warleggan.
My compliments ofthe season, dear ladies.
Sit by me, child.
Beware that man's pitchfork and his tail.
I was passing and wondered
if I might beg the favour
of Elizabeth's company for a few hours?
We have a small gathering at Cardew.
Only if she can be spared, of course.
I fear I cannot.
We intend to keep Christmas quietly,
just among ourselves.
Elizabeth, dear, allow me to assist you
in choosing a suitable gown.
(Lively strings play)
- I wanted to ask your advice.
- Yes?
As Geoffrey Charles's godfather,
I will of course be responsible
for the cost of his education
until he completes university.
- That's too generous. I cannot allow...
- I was not asking your permission, Elizabeth.
Only your opinion
as to whether you favour Oxford or Cambridge.
But this is beyond anything, George.
- I don't know what to say.
- Then may I leave you to ponder,
while I fulfil my obligations to Miss Trevelyan?
I believe you know Sir John, Lord Devoran,
MrAlfred Barbary, my Uncle Cary.
Gentlemen.
Charmed, I'm sure.
I suspect it won't be long,
till we see a Mistress George Warleggan.
Odds on it's the Penrose girl.
He wouldn't be satisfied
with anything less than an honourable.
Nor should he be!
I've discussed it with Pascoe.
We wait until late in the day
to tell Cary I cannot pay him.
Then there's a chance they won't come
and arrest me till tomorrow.
So we shall have one final night
at home together.
- Where are you going?
- With you.
If you think you're to play the hero
and face this alone, you're greatly mistook.
Mistress Poldark! This is a surprise.
- Something to fortify you?
- Thank you, I will. I fear I'll need it.
As I told you, the Warleggans
declined to extend the loan.
Thank you.
'Tis my suspicion they care nothing
for the money.
What they want is the man.
And here he is.
And yet I think perhaps...
they may be disappointed.
How?
- I recently received a visit...
- From?
A person who wishes to remain nameless.
- Harris Pascoe?
- Miss Penvenen.
The proposal I'm instructed to make is this:
to purchase your debt, in full,
and arrange a new promissory note
at a considerably lower rate of interest.
I don't understand.
How could anyone consider that an investment?
The person concerned regards it
as a mark offaith in your prospects and integrity.
Ifyou accept,
the full £1 ,400 will instantly be forthcoming
and you may take it to the Warleggans
this very hour.
But who is this person?
Who would do such a thing?
- Is it you, Harris?
- It is not.
I need your assurance
that no one else will learn ofthis arrangement.
Of course.
- But surely your uncle...
- Your absolute assurance. Can you give it?
Nor am I at liberty to disclose their name.
- It was their express condition.
- Is it someone we know?
- Is it Trencrom?
- Sir Hugh?
The money is available
the moment you sign the new promissory note.
- Is it Horace Treneglos?
- I cannot tell you anything more.
But you, knowin' this person,
do advise us to accept?
But I, knowing this person,
do advise you to accept.
Should we offer him a glass, do you think?
It may be the last good port he has for a while.
Why not? We are gentlemen, after all.
(Chuckles drily)
This way, please, sir.
Good day to you both.
You know my wife, Demelza.
Good day to you, ma'am.
Delighted you can join us.
May I offer you some refreshment?
'Tis most kind ofyou, sir,
but I fear it would not be fitting.
I regret to say I'm unable
to give you the satisfaction...
Most unfortunate.
..of visiting me in prison.
You will have to make do with this.
- What is this foolery?
- Repayment in full,
with interest.
We wish you both
the compliments ofthe season.
How?
How has he managed this?
You told me he had no allies, no friends.
I was evidently wrong.
We will bring him down!
If it takes ten years,
we will see him in the gutter, and his slut.
- We will make it our mission to...
- Compose yourself, Uncle.
Does half of Cornwall
need to hear ofthis small setback?
Small? You call it small?
In the grand scheme ofthings, it is small.
And there are other ways to punish him,
which do not involve money.
From George.
- Prudie?
- Judas!
What's this? A secret cache?
'Twas the maid's notion, sir.
She bid us not to tell 'ee.
'Tis against 'ee goin' to prison.
What else were you not to tell me?
Do 'ee need a list of all the things she do
to keep us safe and fed an' warm an' fitty?
♪ When the moon is on the sea
♪ Kosk yn ta...kosk yn ta
♪ Silver pilchards called to thee
♪ Kosk yn...kosk yn ta
♪ Dream of starry-gazy pie
Shh!
You're right.
I barely notice half ofwhat she does.
Of late, I've barely noticed her at all.
I bought a few things
while you were at the chandler's.
You shouldn't have.
We've so little to spare.
Well, you had nothing for Christmas,
not even my attention.
I need no gifts, Ross.
'Tis enough if you still care for me.
Do you doubt it?
I've begun to.
At least, not your liking,
but...mebbe your longing.
You think I no longer love you?
Not in that way.
Open your present.
(Exhales)
What is it? Do you not like them?
They're too fine. Where would I wear them?
- Will they suit you?
- I cannot tell.
Let me see.
If you like.
So you are not to be rid of me, my love.
So I am not to be rid of you, my love.